README.md, before:

# ShopFast - Grafana Alerting Demo

Complete Grafana alerting demonstration with real-world e-commerce scenarios. Showcases **metrics** (Prometheus), **logs** (Loki), and **database queries** (PostgreSQL) with alerting 

<img width="1110" height="916" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/aec75924-a214-414f-9c86-1f5b31830788" />


---

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Start services
docker compose up -d

# 2. Open Grafana (wait 30 seconds first)
# http://localhost:3000 (admin/admin)

# 3. Run the interactive simulator
./run-simulation.sh
# Choose a scenario from the menu and watch alerts fire!
```

**That's it!** No Python installation needed - everything runs in Docker.

---

## What's Included

**Observability Stack:**
- Grafana 12 - Dashboards and alerting
- **Alloy - Unified observability collector** ⭐ (metrics and logs)
- Prometheus - Metrics storage
- Loki - Log storage
- PostgreSQL - Business database

> 🚀 **Why Alloy?** This demo showcases Grafana Alloy as a **unified collector** for metrics and logs. Instead of multiple agents, Alloy does it all! It collects metrics and logs from your services and routes them to the appropriate backends (Prometheus, Loki). This simplifies your architecture, reduces resource usage, and provides better visibility into your telemetry pipeline via the built-in UI.

> 🔍 **Multi-Source Alerting:** This demo showcases alerting from **three different data sources**: metrics (Prometheus), logs (Loki), and database queries (PostgreSQL) - all unified in Grafana

**Microservices:**
- API Service (8080) - Product catalog and orders
- Frontend Service (8081) - Web interface
- Payment Service (8082) - Payment processing
- Inventory Service (8083) - Stock monitoring

**7 Pre-Configured Alerts:**
| Alert | Type | Trigger |
|-------|------|---------|
| High CPU Usage | Prometheus | CPU > 70% for 1 min |
| High Error Rate | Prometheus | Errors > 10% for 2 min |
| Slow Response Time | Prometheus | p95 > 1s for 3 min |
| Payment Failures | Loki | > 5 errors in 5 min |
| Low Inventory | PostgreSQL | Stock ≤ threshold |
| Critical Inventory | PostgreSQL | Stock ≤ 5 units |
| Failed Logins | PostgreSQL | ≥ 5 attempts in 5 min |

![Alt text](images/alert-rules-baseline.jpg "Provided  alerts to monitor fastshop")
---

## Requirements

- Docker Desktop or Docker Engine + Docker Compose
- 4GB RAM available
- Ports: 3000, 3200, 8080-8083, 9090, 3100, 4317, 4318, 5432, 12345

---

## Running Simulations

### Interactive Menu

Simply run:

```bash
./run-simulation.sh    # Linux/Mac
run-simulation.bat      # Windows
```

You'll get a beautiful interactive menu:

```
╔════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╗
║        🚀 ShopFast Simulation Control Center 🚀           ║
╚════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╝

Choose a simulation scenario to trigger Grafana alerts:

💡 TIP: Press 'q' or '10' to exit | Option '1' to view stock levels

1) 📊 View Current Stock Levels
2) 🟢 Normal Traffic (baseline - no alerts)
3) ⚡ Flash Sale (triggers LOW INVENTORY alert)
4) 💳 Payment Failures (triggers LOG-BASED alert)
5) 🔒 Security Breach (triggers DATABASE alert)
6) 🔥 High CPU Usage (triggers METRICS alert)
7) 📦 Low Inventory (gradual depletion)
8) 🎯 Run ALL Scenarios (complete demo)
9) 🔧 Rebuild Docker Image
10) ❌ Exit

Select scenario (1-10, or 'q' to quit):
```

**What makes this special:**
- 📊 **View live stock levels** - Check inventory status anytime
- ⚡ **Organic traffic generation** - Simulates real requests over time (not instant)
- 🎯 **Interactive prompts** - Guides you through each scenario
- 🔧 **Built-in troubleshooting** - Rebuild option if simulator has issues
- 💡 **Helpful tips** - Shows where to check alerts in Grafana after each run

---

## Demo Control Panel

For **instant** inventory changes during live demos:

```bash
./demo-control.sh    # Linux/Mac
demo-control.bat      # Windows
```

Options:
- Reset to Default (50 units)
- Set High Stock (100 units)
- Set Near Threshold (15 units)
- **Trigger Alert NOW (8 units)** ⚡ Instant alert!
- View/Reset All Products
- Clear Orders

### When to Use Which Tool?

| Tool | Use Case | How It Works |
|------|----------|--------------|
| **run-simulation.sh** | Realistic demos, training | 🌊 **Organic**: Generates real HTTP requests over time (30-120s) |
| **demo-control.sh** | Quick tests, resets | ⚡ **Instant**: Direct database changes (triggers in 30s) |

**Pro Tips:**
- Use **run-simulation.sh** to show realistic traffic patterns and how alerts naturally fire
- Use **demo-control.sh** for quick resets between scenarios or when time is limited
- The simulation tool includes a **rebuild option** (Option 9) if you encounter any issues

---

## Architecture

```
                    ┌─────────────┐
                    │   Grafana   │ ← Port 3000 (Dashboards & Alerting)
                    └──────┬──────┘
                           │ (queries)
         ┌─────────────────┼─────────────────┐
         │                 │                 │
    ┌────▼─────┐      ┌────▼────┐      ┌────▼─────┐
    │Prometheus│      │  Loki   │      │ Postgres │
    │  :9090   │      │  :3100  │      │  :5432   │
    │ (Metrics)│      │ (Logs)  │      │   (DB)   │
    └────▲─────┘      └────▲────┘      └────▲─────┘
         │                 │                 │
         │ (remote_write)  │ (forward)       │ (SQL queries)
         │                 │                 │
         └────────┬────────┘                 │
                  │                          │
            ┌─────▼─────┐                    │
            │   Alloy   │                    │
            │  :12345   │                    │
            │(Collector)│                    │
            └─────▲─────┘                    │
                  │                          │
         (scrape /metrics + tail logs)       │
                  │                          │
       ┌──────────┴──────────────────────────┘
       │
┌──────▼───────────────────────────────────┐
│         Microservices                    │
│  API  │ Frontend │ Payment │ Inventory   │
│  8080 │   8081   │  8082   │   8083      │
└──────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

**Data Flow:**
- **Metrics**: Services expose `/metrics` → Alloy scrapes → Prometheus (via remote_write) → Grafana queries
- **Logs**: Services write to log files → Alloy tails → Loki → Grafana queries
- **Database**: Grafana queries PostgreSQL directly for business metrics

**Benefits:**
- ✅ Single collector agent (Alloy) for metrics and logs
- ✅ Reduced resource footprint vs. multiple agents
- ✅ Centralized configuration and debugging via Alloy UI
- ✅ Multi-source alerting: Prometheus, Loki, and PostgreSQL

---

## Service URLs

| Service | URL | Credentials |
|---------|-----|-------------|
| Grafana | http://localhost:3000 | admin / admin |
| Prometheus | http://localhost:9090 | - |
| Loki | http://localhost:3100 | - |
| Alloy UI | http://localhost:12345 | - |
| API | http://localhost:8080/health | - |
| **Frontend UI** | **http://localhost:8081/** | **-** |
| Payment | http://localhost:8082/health | - |
| Inventory | http://localhost:8083/health | - |

💡 **Explore Observability:**
- **Frontend UI** (http://localhost:8081/): Watch real-time inventory updates during simulations!
- **Alloy UI** (http://localhost:12345): See component graph and collected telemetry
- **Grafana Explore**: Query metrics and logs

---

## Complete Demo Flow (5 Minutes)

Perfect for presentations:

```bash
# 1. Start services
docker compose up -d
# Wait 60 seconds

# 2. Show Grafana
# Open http://localhost:3000
# Navigate to: Alerting → Alert rules

# 3. Run the interactive simulator
./run-simulation.sh
# Select: Option 3 (⚡ Flash Sale)
# Product: 1 (Gaming Laptop)
# Duration: 30 seconds

# 4. Watch alerts fire in Grafana
# The simulator generates organic traffic over 30 seconds
# Alert fires after evaluation period (30-60s total)
# Show: Low Inventory Warning alert

# 5. Reset for next demo
./demo-control.sh
# Select: 1 (Reset to Default)
```

💡  The simulation tool generates realistic HTTP requests over time, showing how alerts naturally fire as inventory depletes - much more impressive than instant database changes!

---

## Troubleshooting

### Services won't start

```bash
docker compose down
docker compose up -d --force-recreate
```

### Simulator connection errors

```bash
# Check services are running
docker compose ps

# View logs
docker compose logs -f api-service

# If issues persist, rebuild the simulator image
./run-simulation.sh
# Then select Option 9 (Rebuild Docker Image)
```

### Alerts not firing

- Wait 30-60 seconds for evaluation
- Check alert "For" duration in Grafana
- Verify query returns data in Explore view

### Docker permission denied (Linux)

```bash
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
newgrp docker
```

### PostgreSQL not ready

Wait 60 seconds on first startup. PostgreSQL takes time to initialize.

---

## Making Alerts Editable

Provisioned alerts are read-only by default. To make them editable:

```bash
# After first startup
docker compose stop grafana
mv grafana/provisioning/alerting/alerting.yml grafana/provisioning/alerting/alerting.yml.backup
docker compose start grafana
```

Now alerts are editable in the Grafana UI!

---

## Alert Query Examples

### Low Inventory (PostgreSQL)

```sql
SELECT name, stock_level 
FROM products 
WHERE stock_level <= low_stock_threshold
```

### Payment Failures (Loki)

```
sum(count_over_time({service="payment"} |~ "ERROR|payment failed" [5m])) > 5
```

### High CPU (Prometheus)

```
rate(process_cpu_seconds_total[1m]) > 0.7
```

---

## Database Access

### Via Grafana

1. Go to **Explore**
2. Select **PostgreSQL**
3. Run queries

### Via Command Line

```bash
docker exec -it shopfast-postgres psql -U shopfast -d shopfast
```

### Useful Queries

```sql
-- View current inventory
SELECT name, stock_level, low_stock_threshold 
FROM products 
ORDER BY stock_level ASC;

-- View recent orders
SELECT o.id, p.name, o.quantity, o.total_amount, o.order_time
FROM orders o
JOIN products p ON o.product_id = p.id
ORDER BY o.order_time DESC
LIMIT 10;

-- Check failed login attempts
SELECT email, COUNT(*) as attempts
FROM login_attempts 
WHERE success = false 
  AND attempt_time > NOW() - INTERVAL '5 minutes'
GROUP BY email;
```

See [DATABASE_SCHEMA.md](DATABASE_SCHEMA.md) for complete schema documentation.

---

## Customization

### Modify Alert Thresholds

Edit `grafana/provisioning/alerting/alerting.yml` or modify in Grafana UI (after making alerts editable).

### Add Notification Channels

Edit `grafana/provisioning/alerting/notification-channels.yml`:

```yaml
notifiers:
  - name: Slack
    type: slack
    settings:
      url: <your-webhook-url>
```

### Add Custom Metrics

Edit service code in `services/*/app.py` to expose new Prometheus metrics.

### Adjust Simulation Behavior

Edit `simulation/simulator.py` and rebuild:

```bash
docker rmi shopfast-simulator
./run-simulation.sh
```

---

## Cleanup

```bash
# Stop services (preserves data)
docker compose down

# Stop and remove all data
docker compose down -v

# Remove simulator image
docker rmi shopfast-simulator
```

---

## Platform Support

### Linux/Mac

```bash
docker compose up -d
./run-simulation.sh
./demo-control.sh
```

### Windows

```powershell
docker compose up -d
run-simulation.bat
demo-control.bat
```

Or use WSL/Git Bash for `.sh` scripts.

---

## How It Works

1. **Services start** via `docker-compose.yml`
2. **Grafana auto-provisions** data sources and alert rules
3. **Simulator generates traffic** via Dockerized Python script
4. **Services emit observability data:**
   - **Metrics** → Prometheus (scraped via /metrics endpoint)
   - **Logs** → Log files → Alloy → Loki
5. **Alloy acts as collector** for logs
6. **Grafana evaluates** alert rules every 30 seconds
7. **Alerts fire** when conditions are met

---

## Use Cases

**Training & Education**
- Teach Grafana alerting concepts
- Demonstrate multi-source alerts
- Show alert configuration best practices

**Sales Demonstrations**
- Showcase Grafana capabilities
- Interactive customer presentations
- Realistic scenarios

**Conference Talks**
- Live demos with pre-configured scenarios
- Quick reset between presentations
- Reliable, reproducible results

---

## Additional Documentation

- **[DATABASE_SCHEMA.md](DATABASE_SCHEMA.md)** - Complete database schema and queries

---

## Support

- Check this README for setup and usage
- Review logs: `docker compose logs -f`
- Check service health: `docker compose ps`

---

**Built for demonstrating Grafana alerting capabilities** 🚀

Commit message:

Update alert notification instructions with better approach

README.md, after:

# ShopFast - Grafana Alerting Demo

Complete Grafana alerting demonstration with real-world e-commerce scenarios. Showcases **metrics** (Prometheus), **logs** (Loki), and **database queries** (PostgreSQL) with alerting 

<img width="1110" height="916" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/aec75924-a214-414f-9c86-1f5b31830788" />


---

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Start services
docker compose up -d

# 2. Open Grafana (wait 30 seconds first)
# http://localhost:3000 (admin/admin)

# 3. Run the interactive simulator
./run-simulation.sh
# Choose a scenario from the menu and watch alerts fire!
```

**That's it!** No Python installation needed - everything runs in Docker.

---

## What's Included

**Observability Stack:**
- Grafana 12 - Dashboards and alerting
- **Alloy - Unified observability collector** ⭐ (metrics and logs)
- Prometheus - Metrics storage
- Loki - Log storage
- PostgreSQL - Business database

> 🚀 **Why Alloy?** This demo showcases Grafana Alloy as a **unified collector** for metrics and logs. Instead of multiple agents, Alloy does it all! It collects metrics and logs from your services and routes them to the appropriate backends (Prometheus, Loki). This simplifies your architecture, reduces resource usage, and provides better visibility into your telemetry pipeline via the built-in UI.

> 🔍 **Multi-Source Alerting:** This demo showcases alerting from **three different data sources**: metrics (Prometheus), logs (Loki), and database queries (PostgreSQL) - all unified in Grafana

**Microservices:**
- API Service (8080) - Product catalog and orders
- Frontend Service (8081) - Web interface
- Payment Service (8082) - Payment processing
- Inventory Service (8083) - Stock monitoring

**7 Pre-Configured Alerts:**
| Alert | Type | Trigger |
|-------|------|---------|
| High CPU Usage | Prometheus | CPU > 70% for 1 min |
| High Error Rate | Prometheus | Errors > 10% for 2 min |
| Slow Response Time | Prometheus | p95 > 1s for 3 min |
| Payment Failures | Loki | > 5 errors in 5 min |
| Low Inventory | PostgreSQL | Stock ≤ threshold |
| Critical Inventory | PostgreSQL | Stock ≤ 5 units |
| Failed Logins | PostgreSQL | ≥ 5 attempts in 5 min |

![Alt text](images/alert-rules-baseline.jpg "Provided  alerts to monitor fastshop")
---

## Requirements

- Docker Desktop or Docker Engine + Docker Compose
- 4GB RAM available
- Ports: 3000, 3200, 8080-8083, 9090, 3100, 4317, 4318, 5432, 12345

---

## Running Simulations

### Interactive Menu

Simply run:

```bash
./run-simulation.sh    # Linux/Mac
run-simulation.bat      # Windows
```

You'll get a beautiful interactive menu:

```
╔════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╗
║        🚀 ShopFast Simulation Control Center 🚀           ║
╚════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╝

Choose a simulation scenario to trigger Grafana alerts:

💡 TIP: Press 'q' or '10' to exit | Option '1' to view stock levels

1) 📊 View Current Stock Levels
2) 🟢 Normal Traffic (baseline - no alerts)
3) ⚡ Flash Sale (triggers LOW INVENTORY alert)
4) 💳 Payment Failures (triggers LOG-BASED alert)
5) 🔒 Security Breach (triggers DATABASE alert)
6) 🔥 High CPU Usage (triggers METRICS alert)
7) 📦 Low Inventory (gradual depletion)
8) 🎯 Run ALL Scenarios (complete demo)
9) 🔧 Rebuild Docker Image
10) ❌ Exit

Select scenario (1-10, or 'q' to quit):
```

**What makes this special:**
- 📊 **View live stock levels** - Check inventory status anytime
- ⚡ **Organic traffic generation** - Simulates real requests over time (not instant)
- 🎯 **Interactive prompts** - Guides you through each scenario
- 🔧 **Built-in troubleshooting** - Rebuild option if simulator has issues
- 💡 **Helpful tips** - Shows where to check alerts in Grafana after each run

---

## Demo Control Panel

For **instant** inventory changes during live demos:

```bash
./demo-control.sh    # Linux/Mac
demo-control.bat      # Windows
```

Options:
- Reset to Default (50 units)
- Set High Stock (100 units)
- Set Near Threshold (15 units)
- **Trigger Alert NOW (8 units)** ⚡ Instant alert!
- View/Reset All Products
- Clear Orders

### When to Use Which Tool?

| Tool | Use Case | How It Works |
|------|----------|--------------|
| **run-simulation.sh** | Realistic demos, training | 🌊 **Organic**: Generates real HTTP requests over time (30-120s) |
| **demo-control.sh** | Quick tests, resets | ⚡ **Instant**: Direct database changes (triggers in 30s) |

**Pro Tips:**
- Use **run-simulation.sh** to show realistic traffic patterns and how alerts naturally fire
- Use **demo-control.sh** for quick resets between scenarios or when time is limited
- The simulation tool includes a **rebuild option** (Option 9) if you encounter any issues

---

## Architecture

```
                    ┌─────────────┐
                    │   Grafana   │ ← Port 3000 (Dashboards & Alerting)
                    └──────┬──────┘
                           │ (queries)
         ┌─────────────────┼─────────────────┐
         │                 │                 │
    ┌────▼─────┐      ┌────▼────┐      ┌────▼─────┐
    │Prometheus│      │  Loki   │      │ Postgres │
    │  :9090   │      │  :3100  │      │  :5432   │
    │ (Metrics)│      │ (Logs)  │      │   (DB)   │
    └────▲─────┘      └────▲────┘      └────▲─────┘
         │                 │                 │
         │ (remote_write)  │ (forward)       │ (SQL queries)
         │                 │                 │
         └────────┬────────┘                 │
                  │                          │
            ┌─────▼─────┐                    │
            │   Alloy   │                    │
            │  :12345   │                    │
            │(Collector)│                    │
            └─────▲─────┘                    │
                  │                          │
         (scrape /metrics + tail logs)       │
                  │                          │
       ┌──────────┴──────────────────────────┘
       │
┌──────▼───────────────────────────────────┐
│         Microservices                    │
│  API  │ Frontend │ Payment │ Inventory   │
│  8080 │   8081   │  8082   │   8083      │
└──────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

**Data Flow:**
- **Metrics**: Services expose `/metrics` → Alloy scrapes → Prometheus (via remote_write) → Grafana queries
- **Logs**: Services write to log files → Alloy tails → Loki → Grafana queries
- **Database**: Grafana queries PostgreSQL directly for business metrics

**Benefits:**
- ✅ Single collector agent (Alloy) for metrics and logs
- ✅ Reduced resource footprint vs. multiple agents
- ✅ Centralized configuration and debugging via Alloy UI
- ✅ Multi-source alerting: Prometheus, Loki, and PostgreSQL

---

## Service URLs

| Service | URL | Credentials |
|---------|-----|-------------|
| Grafana | http://localhost:3000 | admin / admin |
| Prometheus | http://localhost:9090 | - |
| Loki | http://localhost:3100 | - |
| Alloy UI | http://localhost:12345 | - |
| API | http://localhost:8080/health | - |
| **Frontend UI** | **http://localhost:8081/** | **-** |
| Payment | http://localhost:8082/health | - |
| Inventory | http://localhost:8083/health | - |

💡 **Explore Observability:**
- **Frontend UI** (http://localhost:8081/): Watch real-time inventory updates during simulations!
- **Alloy UI** (http://localhost:12345): See component graph and collected telemetry
- **Grafana Explore**: Query metrics and logs

---

## Complete Demo Flow (5 Minutes)

Perfect for presentations:

```bash
# 1. Start services
docker compose up -d
# Wait 60 seconds

# 2. Show Grafana
# Open http://localhost:3000
# Navigate to: Alerting → Alert rules

# 3. Run the interactive simulator
./run-simulation.sh
# Select: Option 3 (⚡ Flash Sale)
# Product: 1 (Gaming Laptop)
# Duration: 30 seconds

# 4. Watch alerts fire in Grafana
# The simulator generates organic traffic over 30 seconds
# Alert fires after evaluation period (30-60s total)
# Show: Low Inventory Warning alert

# 5. Reset for next demo
./demo-control.sh
# Select: 1 (Reset to Default)
```

💡  The simulation tool generates realistic HTTP requests over time, showing how alerts naturally fire as inventory depletes - much more impressive than instant database changes!

---

## Troubleshooting

### Services won't start

```bash
docker compose down
docker compose up -d --force-recreate
```

### Simulator connection errors

```bash
# Check services are running
docker compose ps

# View logs
docker compose logs -f api-service

# If issues persist, rebuild the simulator image
./run-simulation.sh
# Then select Option 9 (Rebuild Docker Image)
```

### Alerts not firing

- Wait 30-60 seconds for evaluation
- Check alert "For" duration in Grafana
- Verify query returns data in Explore view

### Docker permission denied (Linux)

```bash
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
newgrp docker
```

### PostgreSQL not ready

Wait 60 seconds on first startup. PostgreSQL takes time to initialize.

---

## Adding Notifications to Alerts

Provisioned alerts are read-only by default, but you can easily add notifications:

**Recommended: Configure Default Notification Policy**

The best way to add notifications is to configure contact points in the default notification policy - this will route all alerts automatically:

1. Go to **Alerting** → **Notification policies**
2. Click **Edit** on the default policy
3. Add your contact point (Slack, email, PagerDuty, etc.)
4. All alerts will now send notifications!

**Alternative: Duplicate Alerts**

If you need to modify specific alerts:
1. Go to **Alerting** → **Alert rules**
2. Find the alert you want to modify
3. Click the **three dots** → **Duplicate**
4. Edit the duplicated alert as needed

---

## Alert Query Examples

### Low Inventory (PostgreSQL)

```sql
SELECT name, stock_level 
FROM products 
WHERE stock_level <= low_stock_threshold
```

### Payment Failures (Loki)

```
sum(count_over_time({service="payment"} |~ "ERROR|payment failed" [5m])) > 5
```

### High CPU (Prometheus)

```
rate(process_cpu_seconds_total[1m]) > 0.7
```

---

## Database Access

### Via Grafana

1. Go to **Explore**
2. Select **PostgreSQL**
3. Run queries

### Via Command Line

```bash
docker exec -it shopfast-postgres psql -U shopfast -d shopfast
```

### Useful Queries

```sql
-- View current inventory
SELECT name, stock_level, low_stock_threshold 
FROM products 
ORDER BY stock_level ASC;

-- View recent orders
SELECT o.id, p.name, o.quantity, o.total_amount, o.order_time
FROM orders o
JOIN products p ON o.product_id = p.id
ORDER BY o.order_time DESC
LIMIT 10;

-- Check failed login attempts
SELECT email, COUNT(*) as attempts
FROM login_attempts 
WHERE success = false 
  AND attempt_time > NOW() - INTERVAL '5 minutes'
GROUP BY email;
```

See [DATABASE_SCHEMA.md](DATABASE_SCHEMA.md) for complete schema documentation.

---

## Customization

### Modify Alert Thresholds

Edit `grafana/provisioning/alerting/alerting.yml` directly, or duplicate alerts in the Grafana UI to create custom versions.

### Add Notification Channels

Edit `grafana/provisioning/alerting/notification-channels.yml`:

```yaml
notifiers:
  - name: Slack
    type: slack
    settings:
      url: <your-webhook-url>
```

### Add Custom Metrics

Edit service code in `services/*/app.py` to expose new Prometheus metrics.

### Adjust Simulation Behavior

Edit `simulation/simulator.py` and rebuild:

```bash
docker rmi shopfast-simulator
./run-simulation.sh
```

---

## Cleanup

```bash
# Stop services (preserves data)
docker compose down

# Stop and remove all data
docker compose down -v

# Remove simulator image
docker rmi shopfast-simulator
```

---

## Platform Support

### Linux/Mac

```bash
docker compose up -d
./run-simulation.sh
./demo-control.sh
```

### Windows

```powershell
docker compose up -d
run-simulation.bat
demo-control.bat
```

Or use WSL/Git Bash for `.sh` scripts.

---

## How It Works

1. **Services start** via `docker-compose.yml`
2. **Grafana auto-provisions** data sources and alert rules
3. **Simulator generates traffic** via Dockerized Python script
4. **Services emit observability data:**
   - **Metrics** → Prometheus (scraped via /metrics endpoint)
   - **Logs** → Log files → Alloy → Loki
5. **Alloy acts as collector** for logs
6. **Grafana evaluates** alert rules every 30 seconds
7. **Alerts fire** when conditions are met

---

## Use Cases

**Training & Education**
- Teach Grafana alerting concepts
- Demonstrate multi-source alerts
- Show alert configuration best practices

**Sales Demonstrations**
- Showcase Grafana capabilities
- Interactive customer presentations
- Realistic scenarios

**Conference Talks**
- Live demos with pre-configured scenarios
- Quick reset between presentations
- Reliable, reproducible results

---

## Additional Documentation

- **[DATABASE_SCHEMA.md](DATABASE_SCHEMA.md)** - Complete database schema and queries

---

## Support

- Check this README for setup and usage
- Review logs: `docker compose logs -f`
- Check service health: `docker compose ps`

---

**Built for demonstrating Grafana alerting capabilities** 🚀
